certinly, if you don't use the "hide" option people can read your messages. who cares?  if there is a situation where your computer is on and your aim message dialaogs or even your aim panel is displayed then the following must be correct.  1) your computer is currently on 2) no security methods have been engaged to prevent computer manipulation.  thus it doesn't matter if you use the hide or not.  if a person wants to know what you're chatting about there is nothing stopping them from finding out if the previous situations were true.  anyone that would even CONSIDER this as a "security option" needs some assistance.  i suppose it depends on what your uses are. since the very first time i ever used aim i saw this option as a solution of instant message popup windows of crashing my games when i'm playing them full screen.  i suppose someone who sees it as a security method would also see the minimize button as a method of hiding their data as well as the power button the ultimate form of security.  do you see my point?   ----- Original Message ----- From: "Matthew Murphy" <mattmurphy () kc rr com> To: "Mark Shirley" <cyberfrog () core5 net>; "BugTraq" <bugtraq () securityfocus com>; "Full Disclosure" <full-disclosure () lists netsys com>; "SecurITeam News" <news () securiteam com>; "Vuln-Dev" <vuln-dev () securityfocus com> Sent: Monday, August 05, 2002 3:09 AM Subject: Re: AOL Instant Messenger - Away Setting and Snoopersi fail to see the importance of this.  the hide window option isprimarilyfor preventing full screen applications (particularly games) fromcrashingor switching to the desktop when another user messages you.  i highlydoubtthe hide window option is intended for any security purposes.  if you're conserned with people viewing your screen, lock it with a screensaver or nt/2k/xp "lock" feature."Hide window" stops people from viewing your windows.  With this, somebody *could* view your window.  It really is a matter of information disclosure -- do I need to see three pages of chat to tell me therelevanceof 2 messages while I'm away?  Not likely...
