choose.a.username () hushmail com said:Based on an informal study I've done of about 350 researcher reports from early 2002, approximately 50% of the vulnerabilities were released without notifying the vendor, and about 20% of those reports included full exploit codeYour informal study of 50% of 350 researcher reports. What exactly does that mean?  How many of those released were one-offs?  1 person never to be seen from again.  How many of them were "repeat offenders" 10 of the same people releasing the bulk of them?Unfortunately, I don't have that information, as the discloser's identity was not collected (I was mostly interested in the disclosure "timelines".)  But that's a good question...Your number 6 below:  "The Vendor MUST provide a facility for individuals or   organizations who are not Customers to report vulnerabilities"  This to me sounds like it is acceptable that there are going to be vulnerabilities. Continue cranking out shodware because we have a set of guidelines that people who stumble across them are expected to adhere to.Vulnerabilities will happen, even in the best of circumstances, as long as new types of vulnerabilities are discovered.  If there are 20 individuals who decide to audit a package for a new type of vulnerability, but the vendor only has 5 developers, then it seems like there's a good chance that someone other than the vendor will discover the issue.  Then you've got "interaction" vulnerabilities, which I loosely define as when a vulnerability occurs in the way that two products interact with each other.  Developers can't always predict how their product will be used, or how it will interact with other products, so interaction-based vulnerabilities may be around in one form or another.  Given the likelihood of vulnerabilities in a "perfect" world, it seems reasonable that the vendor should be prepared to respond to incoming reports.Why not draft a guideline for release of software onto internet. Security guideline (defaults of configs. etc.) and Quality Guidelines (vendor (a) is a known creator of crudware etc.).  if you want to connect to the interne or peddle your internet connect warest, you the vendor must follow these guidlines. Penalise them them if they fail. Fine them real money if the repeat.This is a very interesting proposal if I understand what you're saying, but it's outside the scope of a disclosure process document.  I can't think of any document that specific says "use secure-by-default" (and defines what that means), "avoid buffer overflows," "conduct third-party evaluation of product design," "make security-based patching and configuration easy" (and try to define *that* :-), etc.  Such a document might be useful for less-technical customers to ask their vendors to make more secure products.  I suspect that many customers want security, but they don't know how to ask for it.  - Steve
