Here's what I did to make myself feel better.   1. Downloaded the full SP3.exe. 2. Disabled my network adapter 3. Ran the SP3 update 4. Rebooted. 5. Disabled Automatic Updates 6. Re-enabled the network adapter  However, this won't accomplish much if you use the WindowsUdate site, as both the website and the Auto-update client will both transmit the same information.    As some consolation, the following text is also provided by Microsoft: "Because Windows Update does not collect personally identifiable information, the configuration information and GUID cannot be used to identify you. "  <SOAPBOX> I must agree with Darren Reeds comments - SP2 was the last "free" Service Pack.  Microsoft has crossed the point of no return, and it would be naive to believe that they are alone.  Other vendors will follow.  Bruce Schneier crystalized the point one or two Blackhats ago when he stated that people believe that, because its computer related, somehow its magically different than the real world.  This, not only applies to security, but it also applies to our privacy.  We tolerate these voilations of our privacy, when we install software, surf the web, etc.  Most of the time without giving it a great deal of thought or concern.  Beacuse its cyberspace?  Who do you think runs those systems? People.  I don't have any answers but I ask that we all stay vigilant. </SOAPBOX>     Javier I. Sanchez   -----Original Message----- From: Nick FitzGerald [mailto:nick () virus-l demon co uk] Sent: Thursday, August 01, 2002 7:44 PM To: bugtraq () securityfocus com; full-disclosure () lists netsys com Subject: RE: Windows 2000 Service Pack 3 now available.   Colin Stefani <cstefani () tideworks com> wrote:Be sure to read the new EULA/privacy statement for Windows update, ithas aninteresting portion about how Windows Update and Automatic Update(whichgets installed with SP3) can, by agreeing to this license, send the following pieces of info to Microsoft, this was posted on the MS focuslistby Javier Sanchez:  "With the latest version of Windows Update (essentially a mandatorydownloadand now part of SP3) you consent to sending the following informationtoMicrosoft:  * Operating-system version number and Product Identification number  * Internet Explorer version number  * Version numbers of other software  * Plug and Play ID numbers of hardware devicesThis adds further irony to the blurb about enabling scripting and  ActiveX, should you visit those pages with (a browser masquerading  as) IE with no scripting nor ActiveX support:     If you are on a Web site that you trust (in this case, Windows    Update), and the ActiveX Control is provided by a publisher you     trust (in this case, Microsoft), it is safe to click Yes in the     dialog box to accept the certificate and allow the control to be     installed.  Seems MS is attempting to redefine "trustworthy" how it once tried to  redefine "open" (who else remembers the early NT launches??).  It seems the option "trust MS enough to run its software but not with  any possibly identifying information" falls outside the gambit of  "trustworthy" in MS-think!  I hope they point this out _in advance of  taking their money_ to all future potential customers...   --  Nick FitzGerald Computer Virus Consulting Ltd. Ph/FAX:  64 3 3529854
